kidney cancer and the center of a
meeting held today in Verona e
which brings together the leading experts of the
sector
let's take stock of the disease with the
doctor giuseppe procopio of the institute
of milan tumors
a doctor, first of all a tumor
disease but there are no more TV
there are various various forms of cancer of the
both from a histological point of view
that from the point of view of the so-called
components that then favor them
the onset there are more than one type of
rap tumor more than one type means
that there are histological features
different that these are also accompanied
to different prosthesis different behavior
of the disease
which form these are common here
so called light up the shape
more common
this photo is one of three
quarters of all primitive tumors of the
kidney is often accompanied by some
types of genetic mutations one of the
balls have been identified and has been
thanks to this that then you are
developed specific drugs for the
cure of this pathology as widespread
kidney cancer can give us some
number
he is not one of the so-called big killers
so it's not one of the four
major oncological diseases e
definitely a rising disease of
incidence if we think in the world are
about 200,000 cases in Italy
by relating them our reality is
entry to 6 thousand new cases have a
This gave proof adds
so-called prevalence data ie say
being of forms that often
many of them relapsed from a distance
years and 30 do not reform that thanks today
even they have an expectation
life that is definitely longer than that
which is important is that the given of
prevalence ie how many people have
that disease in a given
period
we count that in Italy there are about 20 thousand
therefore people have numbers
far from negligible
there is some privileged facility
we say so or it affects us indiscriminately
at any age an illness increases
of incidence with the aging of the
population
let's say that a quarter of the cases are
even in the over 70 75 then one
illness certainly of the average age and
more often decidedly killed in the
little boys who in the little girls which
are the most common symptoms as can be
notice that there is something that nothing
the most common symptoms are the presence of
blood in the urine therefore red sheep
abdominal pain of normal honor e
this can also be perception
therefore of an abdominal mass then
of an effect tied to the fabric not
always all this theory of
symptomatology is present
of the presentation can be much more
out of tune as it is diagnosed on the base
of clinical symptoms rather than
incidental ecography in
Typically, the first examination that there followed the
first exam that allows you to identify
solid and then kidney injury
to that follows the implementation of
more in-depth methods also
rather than magnetic resonance a
which then needs a histological confirmation e
so there is a biopsy of the same
risk factors for this tumor
there are risk factors that are
constituted primarily by the
familiarity just for that kind of
mutation I referred to in
civil precedence are of the populations
which are in theory more at risk
secondly there are factors of
environmental risk and among these a
exposure to cigarette smoke e
what I recognized is not
possible to prevent against
of the tumor but a primary prevention
I would say it is difficult to read primary
indeed this moment is therefore impossible
we cannot prevent a pathology from
which we have not very clear then Lennox e
pathogenic, that is the elements that then
lead to the development of the same yes
it can lead to early diagnosis
surely you can get to do one
timely diagnosis to implement
the most valid therapeutic measures
possible we can give a message e
general practitioners among helping them
seize the first signs of alarm but
I believe it is a message that must
share a bit all the medical class
we all listen more to our own
patients
I say it like a cone on me is
obviously aimed at everyone let's hear it
more because I believe that by listening to the
patient the first step is born
for a valid patient and medical report
then then include those that
are the necessities that in theory also the
diseases that can occur